CR-SIM Cloud Resolving Model (CRM) Radar SIMulator Software v 3.34

McGill Clouds Research Group (radarscience.weebly.com)
aleksandra.tatarevic@mcgill.ca
pavlos.kollias@mcgill.ca
mariko.oue@stonybrook.edu
diewang@bnl.gov
kyu@bnl.gov

crsim version 3.34  Aug 16 2023

Major updates for version 3.34:
- This is the Github version of CRSIM.
- The core part is the exactly same as version 3.33.
- The sample files for test runs and scattering calculation databases are 
saparated. Please don't forget to download the required scattering database
before running crsim.


crsim version 3.33  Dec 18 2019

Major updates for version 3.3*:

- Included computation of new radar polarimetric variable cross-correlation coefficient
- Modified computation of the specific attenuation at horizontal and vertical
 polarizations to include the dependencies of Ah and Av on the angular moments
- Adapted cloud number concentration and mu for rain in P3 for WRF v4.1. 
- Fixed bug in hydro_icon (max and minimum values for rain mixing ratio at each diameter bin). 
- Incorporated negative elevation angles and radar location setting (evaluation stage). 
- Improved stability of the software
- Inconsistencies found when  using real instead of double  precision variables corrected
- The tolerance for all the tests modified from 1.e-10 to 1.e-4

Earlier versions:

crsim version 3.3  Sep 03 2019 (publicly released)
crsim version 3.2  Feb 12 2019 (publicly released)
crsim version 3.1  Mar xx 2018 (publicly released)
crsim version 3.0  Aug 22 2017 (publicly released)
crsim version 2.3  Jul 17 2017 (locally released)
crsim version 2.2  May 12 2016  (locally released)
crsim version 2.1  Apr  25 2016 (locally released)
crsim version 2.0  Feb  23 2016 (publicly released)
crsim version 1.2  Jan  16 2016 (locally released )
crsim version 1.1  Sep  23 2015 (locally released )
crsim version 1.0  July 01 2015 (publicly released)

This directory contains the "CR-SIM" software written in FORTRAN. 

The idea behind CR-SIM is to create an accurate radar forward model operator
 consistent with WRF microphysics that converts the model variables into the
 form of radar observations and thus to enable the direct comparison between 
 WRF output and radar observations. The CR-SIM can be applied in order to 
 reproduce characteristic (polarimetric) signatures commonly found in 
 (polarimetric) radar observations and examine the performance of different
  microphysical schemes and also to examine the assumptions related to scattering
 characteristics of observed cloud and precipitation systems. 

 The current version of CR-SIM uses input from the high resolution Weather Research
 and Forecasting Model (WRF), for microphysical schemes MP_PHYSICS=8 (Thompson scheme)
 MP_PHYSICS=10 (Morrison 2-moment scheme), MP_PHYSICS=9 (Milbrandt and Yau 2-moment scheme),
 MP_PHYSICS=50 (P3 scheme) and MP_PHYSICS=20 (bin explicit scheme) and computes 
 “idealized” forward modeled scanning (or vertical-pointing) radar observations. 
 The CR-SIM can be easily configured to work on other models and microphysics schemes. 
 The CR-SIM uses as input the WRF prognostic mass and number variables in the case of 2-moment 
 microphysics schemes or the explicit (bin) microphysics for the bin explicit scheme. 

The CR-SIM employs the T-matrix method for computation of scattering characteristics
 for cloud water, cloud ice, rain, snow, graupel and hail and allows the specifications
 of the following radar frequencies for scattering calculations: 3 GHz, 5.5 GHz, 9.5 GHz, 
 35 GHz and 94 GHz. 

Given the particles size distributions (explicit or reconstructed from the provided PSD 
 moments),polarimetric radar variables can be calculated if the scattering amplitudes 
 are known. The complex scattering amplitudes are pre-computed and stored as look-up tables
 (LUTs) for equally spaced particle sizes using the Mishchenko's T-matrix code for a non-spherical
 particle at a fixed orientation (Mishchenko, 2000) and for elevation angles from 0° to 90°
 with a spacing of 1°, for specified radar frequencies, temperatures and different possibilities
 of particles densities and aspect ratios. 

It is worth noting that some particle characteristics needed to simulate polarimetric variables
 such as the shape or the statistical properties of the particle orientations are not explicitly
 specified in the WRF. Thus certain assumptions have to be made, based on much available information
 as possible.  For example, the mean canting angles of all hydrometeors are assumed to be 0°. This
 assumption enables the use of Ryzkov et al. (2010) formulations for computation of polarimetric 
 variables and especially the use of simple expressions for the angular moments, which in turn make
 possible that the width of 2D Gaussian distribution of canting angle that is different for various
 hydrometeor species can be specified. 

The polarimetric variables simulated include reflectivity at vertical and horizontal polarization,
 differential reflectivity, specific differential phase, cross-correlation coefficient,
 specific attenuation at horizontal and vertical polarization, specific differential attenuation, 
 and linear depolarization ratio. Also simulated are the vertical reflectivity weighted velocity,
 mean Doppler velocity and spectrum width. The computation of fall velocities is consistent to the 
 computational method used in the specific WRF microphysical package. 

The CR-SIM is licensed under GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE - see LICENSE.

If you use the CR-SIM software package results  for publication, an acknowledgment or  reference
would be appreciated. 

If you have any comments, suggestions for improvements, bug fixes or you need any help when using
CR-SIM, please contact us (aleksandra.tatarevic@mcgill.ca, mariko.oue@stonybrook.edu,
 pavlos.kollias@mcgill.ca,  ,diewang@bnl.gov, kyu@bnl.gov).


